This document describes how to setup the LRMS UR Generator tool alongside the
ARC UR Logger. It is not a difficult thing to do, but it is highly recommended
to understand the problem first.


== The Problem ==

When both the LRMS UR Generator and ARC UR Logger are both deployed at the same
site, they will most likely both generate usage records for the same job, and
register them. If not handled properly, this will cause double accounting for
the same job. However "just" having LRMS logging is insuficient as a lot of
information is not available at LRMS level (e.g., grid identity, vo
information).


== Duplicate Detection ==

The duplicate detection and record overwriting is done within the SGAS
database. However the loggers must be configured such that SGAS can do the
duplicate detection.

The duplicate detection is done solely via the recordId field in the usage
records. The recordId field is composed by the host FQDN and LRMS job
identifier appended together. E.g.,: "benedict.grid.aau.dk:483775.mother".
Furthermore grid usage records will overwrite LRMS usage records, as the grid
records contain more information. This is done by looking at the GlobalJobId
field, but the details are not important.

Note that duplicate detection and overwrite is only supported in the SGAS
PostgreSQL backend. The CouchDB backend only does regular duplicate detection
(i.e, grid records will not overwrite LRMS records, if the LRMS record came
first).


== Configuration ==

So, in order for the duplicate detection to work the host FQDN used at the
different loggers must be the same. If your setup only have a single frontend
machine for submitting jobs, configuration will typically not be required.

However if you have multiple frontend machines, you must configure the ARC UR
Logger and the LRMS UR Generator, such that the records are produced with
identical hostnames. E.g., if you have a setup with an ARC frontend at the host
arc.mysite.example.org, and an LRMS frontend at lrms.mysite.example.org, you
should configure the to loggers such that they use the same FQDN, e.g.,
mysite.example.org. This configuration is explained in the next:

ARC UR Logger:
Set the hostname setting in the [logger] section in arc.conf, e.g.,:
---
[logger]
hostname="mysite.example.org"
---

LRMS UR Logger:

Set the hostname setting in the [common] section in lrmsurgen.conf (typically
located /etc/lrmsurgen/lrmsurgen.conf), e.g.,:
---
[common]
hostname=benedict.grid.aau.dk
---

Setting these values, will also mean that the logged machine name will be the
same for the records (so the accounting data will make sense when looking at
aggregated values).

